trunk/daetools-package/daetools/docs/tutorials.rst, before:

**********
Tutorials
**********
..
    Copyright (C) Dragan Nikolic, 2016
    DAE Tools is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
    terms of the GNU General Public License version 3 as published by the Free Software
    Foundation. DAE Tools is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
    ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
    PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.
    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with the
    DAE Tools software; if not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.


.. _tutorials_basic:

.. rubric:: Basic Tutorials
The `basic tutorials <tutorials-basic.html>`_ illustrate the fundamental modelling concepts in **DAE Tools**,
simulation options, use of data reporter, data receiver and log objects, DAE and LA solvers, interoperability
with NumPy, support for discrete systems and external functions.


.. _tutorials_advanced:

.. rubric:: Advanced Tutorials
The `advanced tutorials <tutorials-advanced.html>`_ illustrate the advanced **DAE Tools**
features such as solution of the discretized population balance equations using high resolution
upwind schemes with flux limiter, modelling of lithium-ion battery based on porous electrode theory,
interactive operating procedures, code-generation/co-simulation/model-exchange capabilities.


.. _tutorials_fe:

.. rubric:: Finite Element Tutorials
The `finite element tutorials <tutorials-fe.html>`_ illustrate the support for finite element
method in **DAE Tools** through the deal.II library.


.. _tutorials_optimisation:

.. rubric:: Optimisation Tutorials
The `optimisation tutorials <tutorials-optimisation.html>`_ illustrate **DAE Tools** capabilities
to solve NLP/MINLP optimisation and parameter estimation problems.


.. rubric:: The full list of tutorials:

.. toctree::
   :numbered:
   :maxdepth: 2 

   tutorials-basic
   tutorials-advanced
   tutorials-fe
   tutorials-optimisation

Commit message:

Added a new section to the tutorials: chemical engineering, and added two fairly simply models (CSTR and binary distillation column). Modified model reports .xslt and .css files. Equations now do not save residual expressions in xml format (Expression tag) since it is not used anywhere and tends to be huge for long equations.
git-svn-id: svn://svn.code.sf.net/p/daetools/code@673 e944343b-51ee-4bc0-bd0d-d7880edd40ba

trunk/daetools-package/daetools/docs/tutorials.rst, after:

**********
Tutorials
**********
..
    Copyright (C) Dragan Nikolic, 2016
    DAE Tools is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
    terms of the GNU General Public License version 3 as published by the Free Software
    Foundation. DAE Tools is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
    ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
    PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.
    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with the
    DAE Tools software; if not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.


.. _tutorials_basic:

.. rubric:: Basic Tutorials
The `Basic Tutorials <tutorials-basic.html>`_ illustrate the fundamental modelling concepts in **DAE Tools**,
simulation options, use of data reporter, data receiver and log objects, DAE and LA solvers, interoperability
with NumPy, support for discrete systems and external functions.


.. _tutorials_advanced:

.. rubric:: Advanced Tutorials
The `Advanced Tutorials <tutorials-advanced.html>`_ illustrate the advanced **DAE Tools**
features such as solution of the discretized population balance equations using high resolution
upwind schemes with flux limiter, modelling of lithium-ion battery based on porous electrode theory,
interactive operating procedures, code-generation/co-simulation/model-exchange capabilities.


.. _tutorials_fe:

.. rubric:: Finite Element Tutorials
The `Finite Element Tutorials <tutorials-fe.html>`_ illustrate the support for finite element
method in **DAE Tools** through the deal.II library.


.. _tutorials_optimisation:

.. rubric:: Optimisation Tutorials
The `Optimisation Tutorials <tutorials-optimisation.html>`_ illustrate **DAE Tools** capabilities
to solve NLP/MINLP optimisation and parameter estimation problems.


.. _tutorials_chemeng:

.. rubric:: Chemical Engineering Examples
The `Chemical Engineering Tutorials <tutorials-chemeng.html>`_ illustrate various chemical engineering
problems solved by **DAE Tools**.


.. rubric:: The full list of tutorials:

.. toctree::
   :numbered:
   :maxdepth: 2 

   tutorials-basic
   tutorials-advanced
   tutorials-fe
   tutorials-optimisation
   tutorials-chemeng
